#Building our first component
##Setup index.html
1. Create basic html file

2. Initialise npm and install react

        npm init
        npm install react react-dom --save

3. Include in HTML

        <script src="node_modules/react/dist/react.js"></script>
        <script src="node_modules/react-dom/dist/react-dom.js"></script>


4. We need to add some functionality to transform our JSX to the corresponding javascript objects which React understands in order to build it's Virtual DOM.

    install babel-core

        npm install babel-core@5.8.23 --save

    Include in HTML

        <script src="node_modules/babel-core/browser.js"></script>

    Normally we handle this in our build process but for demo purposes we can use a transformer that will handle the transformation for us at runtime.

    This is not recommended for production applications for performance reasons.

5. Finally we add a div with an id (='app') which we will use to bind our react component on.

##HelloWorld.jsx
    // helloWorld.jsx
    var HelloWorld = React.createClass({
        render: function(){
            return (
                <h1>Hello World!</h1>
            )
        }
    });

1. We create a React component by using the React.createClass method. We pass in a javascript object as parameter. In this object we will build our component by a set of methods (provided by react) which we can use to build our component.

    There is only **1** mandatory method which is **render**.
    This method will hold our component template.

2. In order to link our component to our HTML we use the React.render method.

        ReactDOM.render(<HelloWorld />, document.getElementById('app'));

    This method expects 2 parameters:
    1. our component
    2. HTML element on which we want to bind our component

3. Finally we add a script tag to our HMTL which points to the file that holds our component.

        <script type="text/babel" src="helloWorld.jsx" />