#JSX
JSX is an XML extension on Javascript.

##Why JSX
You don't have to use JSX with React. You can just use plain JS.

Using JSX is beneficial because it is familiar syntax (HTLM like) for defining tree structures with attributes.

##HTML Tags vs React Components
React can either render HTML tags or React components.

To render a HTML tag, we use lower-case tag names in JSX:

    var helloWorld = <h1>Hello World <h1/>;
    ReactDOM.render(helloWorld, document.getElementById('app'));

To render a React Component, we save our React component in a local variable with an upper-case letter:

    var HelloWorld = React.createClass({/*...*/});
    var myElement = <HelloWorld someProperty={true} />;
    ReactDOM.render(myElement, document.getElementById('app'));

React's JSX uses the upper vs. lower case convention to distinguish between local component classes and HTML tags.

Overview of available HTML tags and attributes:
<a href="https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/tags-and-attributes.html">https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/tags-and-attributes.html</a>

We can use almost all HTML attributes and events in our JSX.

HTML events are written in camelcase

    <input type="text" onClick={myFunction()}>

*Note:
Since JSX is JavaScript, identifiers such as class and for are discouraged as XML attribute names. Instead, React DOM components expect DOM property names like className and htmlFor, respectively.*


##JSX Transformation
As said earlier, it is not mandatory to use JSX syntax in our component's render method.

Since we use a transformer to obtain the javascript object style notation, we could simply write our template directly with these javascript objects.

Our example from above will be transformed into the following:

    var HelloWorld = React.createClass({
        displayName:'HelloWorld',
        render: function(){
            return (
                React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello world!')
            )
        }
    });

    ReactDOM.render(React.createElement(HelloWorld), document.getElementById('app'));