#State
##Adding state to your component
Each component has the ability to manage its own state and pass its state down to child components if needed.

We can add state to a component by using React's 'getInitialState' method.

    getInitialState: function() {
        return {
            name: 'Bootcamp'
        }
    }

In this function we simply return a javascript object in which we can define our component state. In the code above we’re telling our component that we want it to keep track of a name. This name can now be used inside our component by:

    this.state.name

If we would add state to our helloWorld example, it would look like this:

    //helloWorld.jsx
    var HelloWorld = React.createClass({
        getInitialState: function() {
            return {
                name: 'Euricom'
            }
        },
      render: function(){
        return (
            <div>
                <h1>Hello {this.state.name}</h1>
            </div>
        )
      }
    });
    ReactDOM.render(<HelloWorld />, document.getElementById('app'));

As we can see in the above example, we have added state to our component. In our render method we used a property of our state. We can add javascript expressions inside our JSX by placing it between { }.

###React Developer tools
React developer tools is a chrome devtools extension for React. It allows you to inspect the React component hierarchies in the chrome devtools.

Click [here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en) to download.

##Editing state
We've seen how we can add state to our React component. In this topic we get to see how we can edit this state.

We do this with a method called **setState**.

Remember earlier when we talked about the re-rendering of the virtual dom whenever the data changes?

***1. SIGNAL TO NOTIFY OUR APP SOME DATA HAS CHANGED***
***2. RE-RENDER VIRTUAL DOM***
***3. DIFF PREVIOUS VIRTUAL DOM WITH NEW VIRTUAL DOM***
***4. ONLY UPDATE REAL DOM WITH NECESSARY CHANGES***

That “signal to notify our app some data has changed” is actually just setState. Whenever setState is called, the virtual DOM re-renders, the diff algorithm runs, and the real DOM is updated with the necessary changes.

In the next code sample, we’re going to add an input box to our helloWorld example. Whenever someone types into it, it will automatically update our state and change the name property from our state.

    // helloWorld.jsx
    var HelloWorld = React.createClass({
        getInitialState: function() {
            return {
                name: 'Euricom'
            }
        },
      render: function(){
        return (
            <div>
                    <h1>Hello {this.state.name}</h1>
                    <input type="text" value={this.state.name} onChange={this._handleChange}/>
            </div>

        )
      },

      _handleChange: function(e) {
            this.setState({
                name: e.target.value
            })
      }
    });

    ReactDOM.render(<HelloWorld />, document.getElementById('app'));

We’ve introduced a few more things in this example. The first thing is the handleChange method. This method is going to get called every time a user types in the input box. When handleChange is called, it’s going to call setState to re-define our name with whatever was typed into the input box (e.target.value). Remember, whenever setState is called, React creates a new virtual DOM, does the diff, then updates the real DOM.

**Note:** *As a guideline, we'll be prefixing our custom (not provided by React) methods with an underscore.*

Now let’s look at our render method. We’ve added a new line that contains an input field. The type of the input field is obviously going to be “text”. The value is going to be the value of our name which was originally defined in our getInitialState method and will be updated in the handleChange method.

Notice we type the onChange event in camelcase.

The process for the code above would go something like this.

1. A user types into the input box
2. handleChange is invoked
3. the state of our component is set to a new value
4. React re-renders the virtual DOM
5. React Diffs the change
6. Real DOM is updated.