##Component lifecycle
Each component you make will have its own lifecycle events that are useful for various things.

For example, if we wanted to make an ajax request on the initial render and fetch some data, where would we do that? Or, if we wanted to run some logic whenever our props changed, how would we do that?

The different lifecycle events are the answers to both of those.

    // app.jsx
    var EmployeeContainer = React.createClass({
        getInitialState: function() {
            return {
                company: 'Euricom',
                employees: ['Peter', 'Niels', 'Kevin']
            }
        },

        // Invoked once before first render
        componentWillMount: function(){
            // Calling setState here does not cause a re-render
            alert('In Component Will Mount');
        },

        // Invoked once after the first render
        componentDidMount: function(){
            // You now have access to this.getDOMNode()
            alert('In Component Did Mount');
        },

        // Invoked whenever there is a prop change
        // Called BEFORE render
        componentWillReceiveProps: function(nextProps){
            // Not called for the initial render
            // Previous props can be accessed by this.props
            // Calling setState here does not trigger an additional re-render
            alert('In Component Will Receive Props');
        },

      // Called IMMEDIATELY before a component is unmounted
      componentWillUnmount: function(){},

        render: function() {
            return (
                <div>
                    <h1>{this.state.company}</h1>
                    <AddEmployee />
                    <EmployeeList employees={this.state.employees}/>
                </div>
            )
        },

        _addNewEmployee: function(newEmployee) {
            if (newEmployee) {
                this.setState({
                    employees: this.state.employees.concat(newEmployee)
                })
            }
        }
    });

####componentWillMount
Invoked once before the initial render. If you were to call setState here, no re-render would be invoked. An example of this would be if you’re using a service like firebase, you’d set up your reference to your firebase database here since it’s only invoked once on the initial render.

####componentDidMount
Invoked once after the initial render. Because the component has already been invoked when this method is invoked, you have access to the virtual DOM if you need it. You do that by calling this.getDOMNode(). Now it might seem like if you wanted to make AJAX requests you would do that in componentWillMount, but the devs at facebook actually recommend you do that in componentDidMount. So this is the lifecycle event where you’ll be making your AJAX requests to fetch some data.

####componentWillReceiveProps
This life cycle is not called on the initial render, but is instead called whenever there is a change to props. Use this method as a way to react to a prop change before render() is called by updating the state with setState.

####shouldComponentUpdate
Invoked before rendering when new props or state are being received. This method is not called for the initial render.

Use this as an opportunity to return false when you're certain that the transition to the new props and state will not require a component update.

If shouldComponentUpdate returns false, then render() will be completely skipped until the next state change. In addition, componentWillUpdate and componentDidUpdate will not be called.

By default, shouldComponentUpdate always returns true to prevent subtle bugs when state is mutated in place, but if you are careful to always treat state as immutable and to read only from props and state in render() then you can override shouldComponentUpdate with an implementation that compares the old props and state to their replacements.

If performance is a bottleneck, especially with dozens or hundreds of components, use shouldComponentUpdate to speed up your app.

####componentWillUpdate
Invoked immediately before rendering when new props or state are being received. This method is not called for the initial render.

Use this as an opportunity to perform preparation before an update occurs.

####componentDidUpdate
Invoked immediately after the component's updates are flushed to the DOM. This method is not called for the initial render.

Use this as an opportunity to operate on the DOM when the component has been updated.

####componentWillUnmount
This life cycle is invoked immediately before a component is unmounted from the DOM. This is where you can do necessary clean up. For example, going back to our firebase example this is the life cycle event where you would clean up your firebase reference you set in componentWillMount.

There are a few more life cycle methods, but these are the ones that are used the most.
You can find a full overview <a href="https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/component-specs.html#lifecycle-methods">here</a>

**EXERCISE**
[Complete exercises 4](https://github.com/Euricom/frontend-bootcamp-2015Q4/blob/master/topics/React/exercises/Chapter%201:%20The%20basics/exercise.md#4-lifecycle-events)
